# Stream-JMX
A Lightweight framework to stream and monitor JMX metrics.
(Formerly known as PingJMX)

Stream JMX metrics to:
* Central monitoring server
* File, socket, log4j
* User defined destination

These metrics can be used to monitor health, performance and availability of your JVMs and applications.
Use Stream-JMX to embed a monitoring agent within your application and monitor memory, GC activity, CPU as
well as user defined MBeans.

Here is what you can do with Stream-JMX:
* Periodic JVM heartbeat
* Monitor memory utilization, GC activity, memory leaks
* High/Low, normal vs. abnormal CPU usage
* Monitor threading, runtime and other JVM performance metrics
* Monitor standard and custom MBean attributes
* Conditional actions based on MBean attribute values
* Conditional streaming based on custom filters
* Application state dumps on VM shut-down for diagnostics

# Why Stream-JMX
Stream-JMX provides and easy, lightweight and secure way to stream and monitor JMX metrics from within
java runtime containers.

* Stream JMX metrics out of the JVM container (vs. polling from outside/remote)
* Makes it easy to monitor farms of JVMs, application servers
* Reduce cyber security risk: No need to enable remote JMX, SSL, security, ports, firewalls
* Integration with monitoring tools for alerting, pro-active monitoring (AutoPilot M6)
* Integration with cloud analytics tools (https://www.jkoolcloud.com via JESL)
* Integration with log4j, slf4j, jkoolcloud (via TNT4J event sinks)
* Embedded application state dump framework for diagnostics
* Easily build your own extensions, monitors

**NOTE:** JESL provides a way to stream events generated by Stream-JMX to jKool Cloud.
For more information on JESL visit: [JESL project on Github](https://nastel.github.io/JESL).

# Using Stream-JMX
It is simple, do one of the following:
 * run Stream-JMX as a `-javaagent`
 * attach Stream-JMX as agent to running JVM
 * connect Stream-JMX over JMXConnector to locally running JVM or remote JMX service
 * embed Stream-JMX code into your application

**NOTE:** Running Stream-JMX as `-javaagent`, attaching agent to running JVM or connecting over JMXConnector to locally running JVM or 
remote JMX service over RMI connection can be invoked without changing your application code.

**NOTE:** When you want to sample JMX inter-process communication way (providing `-connect` or `-attach` mode `-vm` parameter value as 
PID/process name), then `Stream-JMX` and sampled process **MUST be** running JVM built by same provider (e.g. `IBM`, `Oracle`, `OpenJDK`) 
and same architecture (`x86`, `x64`). If JVM provider or architecture differs, then only way to collect JMX samples is using `-connect` mode 
defining `JMXConnector` (over `RMI`) URL.

## Running Stream-JMX as `-javaagent`

### Command line to run
```cmd
java -javaagent:tnt4j-stream-jmx.jar="*:*!30000" -Dtnt4j.config=tnt4j.properties -classpath "tnt4j-stream-jmx.jar;lib/*" your.class.name your-args
```
The options are `-javaagent:tnt4j-stream-jmx.jar="mbean-filter!sample-time-ms"`, classpath must include tnt4j-stream-jmx jar files as well 
as locations of log4j and tnt4j configuration files.

## Attaching Stream-JMX to running JVM

### Command line to run
```cmd
java -Dtnt4j.config=.\config\tnt4j.properties -Dcom.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.agent.trace=true -classpath "tnt4j-stream-jmx.jar;lib/*" com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.SamplingAgent -attach -vm:activemq -ap:tnt4j-stream-jmx-0.5.0.jar -ao:*:*!10000
```
System properties `-Dxxxxx` defines Stream-JMX configuration. For details see [Stream-JMX configuration ](#stream-jmx-configuration).

`SamplingAgent` arguments `-attach -vm:activemq -ap:tnt4j-stream-jmx-0.5.0.jar -ao:*:*!10000` states:
* `-attach` - defines that `SamplingAgent` shall be attached to running JVM process
* `-vm:activemq` - is JVM descriptor. In this case it is running JVM name fragment `activemq`. But it also may be JVM process identifier - 
PID. Mandatory argument.
* `-ap:tnt4j-stream-jmx-0.5.0.jar` - is agent library name. If it is class path - then only name should be sufficient. In any other case 
define full or relative path, e.g., `..\build\tnt4j-stream-jmx\tnt4j-stream-jmx-0.5.0\lib\tnt4j-stream-jmx-0.5.0.jar`. Mandatory argument.
* `-ao:*:*!10000` - is JMX sampler options stating to include all MBeans and schedule sampling every 10 seconds. Sampler options are 
optional - default value is `*:*!30000`. Initial sampler delay can be configured by adding numeric parameter `*:*!30000!1000` defining 
initial sampler delay as 1 second. Default sampler delay value is equal to sampling period value.

**NOTE:** arguments and properties defined running `SamplingAgent.main` is forwarded to `SamplingAgent` agent attached to JVM process.

### Coding into API
You can attach `SamplingAgent` to JVM from your custom API by calling [SamplingAgent.attach(String,String,String)](./tnt4j-stream-jmx-core/src/main/java/com/jkoolcloud/tnt4j/stream/jmx/SamplingAgent.java#L520) method. 

Sample `attach` call:
```java
try {
  SamplingAgent.attach("activemq", "tnt4j-stream-jmx-0.5.0.jar", "*:*!10000");
} catch (Exception exc) {
  exc.printStackTrace();
}
```

## Connecting Stream-JMX to local or remote JMX service

### Command line to run

#### To connect to local JVM process

```cmd
java -Dtnt4j.config=.\config\tnt4j.properties -Dcom.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.agent.trace=true -classpath "tnt4j-stream-jmx.jar;lib/*" com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.SamplingAgent -connect -vm:activemq -ao:*:*!*:dummy!10000
```

System properties `-Dxxxxx` defines Stream-JMX configuration. For details see [Stream-JMX configuration ](#stream-jmx-configuration).

`SamplingAgent` arguments `-connect -vm:activemq -ao:*:*!*:dummy!10000` states:
* `-connect` - defines that `SamplingAgent` shall connect to running JVM process over JMXConnector (RMI) connection.
* `-vm:activemq` - is JVM descriptor. In this case it is running JVM name fragment `activemq`. But it also may be JVM process identifier - 
PID. Mandatory argument.
* `-ao:*:*!*:dummy!10000` - is JMX sampler options stating to include all MBeans, exclude all `dummy` MBeans and schedule sampling every 10 
seconds. Sampler options are optional - default value is `*:*!30000`. Initial sampler delay can be configured by adding numeric parameter 
`*:*!30000!1000` defining initial sampler delay as 1 second. Default sampler delay value is equal to sampling period value.

#### To connect to JMX service over URL

```cmd
java -Dtnt4j.config=.\config\tnt4j.properties -Dcom.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.agent.trace=true -classpath "tnt4j-stream-jmx.jar;lib/*" com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.SamplingAgent -connect -vm:service:jmx:<JMX_URL> -ul:admin -up:admin -ao:*:*!!10000 -cri:30 -cp:javax.net.ssl.trustStore=/your/path/to/truststore.jks -cp:javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=truststore_pwd
```
System properties `-Dxxxxx` defines Stream-JMX configuration. For details see [Stream-JMX configuration ](#stream-jmx-configuration).

`SamplingAgent` arguments `-connect -vm:service:jmx:<JMX_URL> -ul:admin -up:admin -ao:*:*!!10000 -cri:30 -cp:javax.net.ssl.trustStore=/your/path/to/truststore.jks -cp:javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=truststore_pwd` states:
* `-connect` - defines that `SamplingAgent` shall connect to running JMX service over JMXConnector (RMI) connection.
* `-vm:service:jmx:<JMX_URL>` - is JMX service URL to use for connection. Mandatory argument. Full URL may be like 
`service:jmx:rmi://127.0.0.1/stub/rO0ABXN9AAAAAQAlamF2YXgubWFuYWdlbWVudC5yZW1vdGUucm1pLlJNSVNlcnZlcnhyABdqYXZhLmxhbmcucmVmbGVjdC5Qcm94eeEn2iDMEEPLAgABTAABaHQAJUxqYXZhL2xhbmcvcmVmbGVjdC9JbnZvY2F0aW9uSGFuZGxlcjt4cHNyAC1qYXZhLnJtaS5zZXJ2ZXIuUmVtb3RlT2JqZWN0SW52b2NhdGlvbkhhbmRsZXIAAAAAAAAAAgIAAHhyABxqYXZhLnJtaS5zZXJ2ZXIuUmVtb3RlT2JqZWN002G0kQxhMx4DAAB4cHc2AAtVbmljYXN0UmVmMgAACzE3Mi4xNi42Ljg2AADPWKO5DJD/bZIhG9aBuwAAAVo8DdAkgAEAeA==`.
* `-ul:admin` - is user login. In this case it is `admin`. User login argument is optional.
* `-up:admin` - is user password. In this case it is `admin`. User password argument is optional.
* `-ao:*:*!!10000` - is JMX sampler options stating to include all MBeans and schedule sampling every 10 seconds. Sampler options are 
optional - default value is `*:*!30000`. Initial sampler delay can be configured by adding numeric parameter `*:*!30000!1000` defining 
initial sampler delay as 1 second. Default sampler delay value is equal to sampling period value.
* `-cp:javax.net.ssl.trustStore=/your/path/to/truststore.jks -cp:javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=truststore_pwd` - is JMX connector 
parameters definitions in properties format `key=value`. JMX connector parameters are optional and can be defined multiple times - as many 
as there are required JMX connector parameters.
* `-cri:30` - is connection retry interval in seconds. In this case it is `30sec` between connect retry attempts. Connection retry interval 
is optional - default value is `10sec`. Special values are:
    * `0` indicates no delay between repeating connect attempts.
    * `-1` indicates no repeating connect attempts shall be made at all and application has to stop on first failed attempt to connect.

**NOTE**:
* URI of remote RMI service (e.g., to connect remote Kafka service) may require additional `/` chars, e.g.:
```cmd
-vm:service:jmx:rmi:///jndi/rmi:///172.16.6.35:2181/jmxrmi
```
* Remote end may require to enable JMX listening port in service configuration to accept connections (e.g., to connect remote Kafka service):
```bash
export JMX_PORT=${JMX_PORT:-9999}
```

#### Connecting remote WebSphere Application Server (WAS)

Additions needed to run `SamplingAgent` connected to remote WAS machine can be found in executable OS shell run script files 
`bin/stream-jmx-conenct-was.bat` or `bin/stream-jmx-conenct-was.sh`. It contains those major configuration additions:
* WAS environment setup configuration
* appending `LIBPATH` variable with WAS libs
* adding WAS specific JMX sampler options
* defining WAS `JMXConnector` parameters
* adding those additional `java` command parameters

**NOTE:** When you have IBM JVM running on client side and getting authentication or naming related exceptions, you have to:
* Alter `sas.client.props` by setting `com.ibm.CORBA.validateBasicAuth=false`
* Add additional `SamplingAgent` arguments:
```properties
    -ul:[your WAS user]
    -up:[your WAS user pass]
    -cp:java.naming.factory.initial=com.ibm.websphere.naming.WsnInitialContextFactory
    -cp:java.naming.factory.url.pkgs=com.ibm.ws.naming
    -cp:java.naming.provider.url=corbaloc:iiop:localhost:2809/WsnAdminNameService
```

#### Connecting remote Tomcat Server

**NOTE:** Tomcat does not provide J2EE implementation, thus you need only stream-jmx `core` jar when sampling Tomcat metrics over JMX.
Executable OS shell run script files `bin/stream-jmx-conenct-tomcat.bat` or `bin/stream-jmx-conenct-tomcat.sh` are dedicated to do the job.

See [Enabling Tomcat JMX Remote](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-7.0-doc/monitoring.html) to enable remote JMX access of Tomcat server 
instance. 

**NOTE:** use this URI template to connect remote Tomcat server JMX over RMI:   
```cmd
-vm:service:jmx:rmi:///jndi/rmi://[HOST]:[PORT]/jmxrmi
```

See [To connect to JMX service over URL](#to-connect-to-jmx-service-over-url) how to connect remote Tomcat over URL.

### Coding into API
You can connect `SamplingAgent` to JVM from your custom API by calling [SamplingAgent.connect(String,String)](./tnt4j-stream-jmx-core/src/main/java/com/jkoolcloud/tnt4j/stream/jmx/SamplingAgent.java#L574) method. 

Sample `connect` call for local JVM:
```java
try {
  SamplingAgent.connect("activemq", "*:*!!10000");
} catch (Exception exc) {
  exc.printStackTrace();
}
```

Sample `connect` call for remote JVM:
```java
try {
  SamplingAgent.connect("service:jmx:iiop://172.16.6.40:2809/jndi/JMXConnector", "*:*!!10000");
} catch (Exception exc) {
  exc.printStackTrace();
}
```

Sample `connect` call for remote JVM defining user name and password:
```java
try {
  SamplingAgent.connect("activemq", "admin", "admin", "*:*!!10000");
} catch (Exception exc) {
  exc.printStackTrace();
}
```
or defining map of connection configuration parameters:
```java
try {
  Map<String, Object> connParams = new HashMap<String, Object>();
  connParams.put("javax.net.ssl.trustStore", "/your/path/to/truststore.jks");
  connParams.put("javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword", "truststore_pwd");
  SamplingAgent.connect("activemq", "*:*!!10000", connParams);
} catch (Exception exc) {
  exc.printStackTrace();
}
```

## Sampling local process runner JVM

### Command line to run
```cmd
java -Dtnt4j.config=.\config\tnt4j.properties -Dcom.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.agent.trace=true -classpath "tnt4j-stream-jmx.jar;lib/*" com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.SamplingAgent -local -ao:*:*!*:dummy!10000
```

System properties `-Dxxxxx` defines Stream-JMX configuration. For details see [Stream-JMX configuration ](#stream-jmx-configuration).

`SamplingAgent` arguments `-connect -vm:activemq -ao:*:*!*:dummy!10000` states:
* `-local` - defines that `SamplingAgent` shall run sampling on local process runner JVM.
* `-ao:*:*!*:dummy!10000` - is JMX sampler options stating to include all MBeans, exclude all `dummy` MBeans and schedule sampling every 10 
seconds. Sampler options are optional - default value is `*:*!30000`. Initial sampler delay can be configured by adding numeric parameter 
`*:*!30000!1000` defining initial sampler delay as 1 second. Default sampler delay value is equal to sampling period value.

### Coding into API
You can run `SamplingAgent` for local process runner JVM from your custom API by calling [SamplingAgent.sampleLocalVM(String,boolean)](./tnt4j-stream-jmx-core/src/main/java/com/jkoolcloud/tnt4j/stream/jmx/SamplingAgent.java#L686) method. 

Sample `sampleLocalVM` call for a local process runner JVM:
```java
try {
  SamplingAgent.sampleLocalVM("*:*!!10000", true);
} catch (Exception exc) {
  exc.printStackTrace();
}
```

## Running Stream-JMX as servlet

### Generic servlet page features

Top of the page is dedicated to list Stream-JMX used properties.

Change properties as you like in input field and press `Sumbit` button to apply changes. JMX sampler service will restart and changes will 
apply instantly without restating servlet or web container.

`tnt4j.properties` file is displayed bellow. You can change that online. Press `Submit TNT4.config` to update configuration. JMX sampler 
service will restart.

Bellow you can see Stream-JMX console output. Refresh page or click `Update` button to update console contents.

### WebSphere Application Server (WAS)

Build Stream-JMX and find tnt4j-stream-jmx-was-*.ear in distribution build directory or archives produced.

Login to WebSphere Integrated Solutions Console and install TNT4J-Stream-JMX ear you've built:
* Navigate Applications->New application and choose New Enterprise Application. Choose file you have built and install Stream-JMX 
application you usually do, or fallowing IBM's instruction. Keep in mind context path.
* Start the application.

By default Stream-JMX connects to local WAS runner JVM using `com.ibm.websphere.management.AdminServiceFactory.getMBeanFactory()`.

Navigate to `http://localhost:9080/YOUR_CHOOSEN_CONTEXT_PATH/`. TNT4J-Stream-JMX configuration/monitoring page should be displayed.
See [Generic servlet page features](#generic-servlet-page-features) on what is available there.

See [Generic servlet page features](#generic-servlet-page-features).

### WebSphere Liberty Server

Build Stream-JMX and find tnt4j-stream-jmx-liberty-war-*.war in distribution build directory or archives produced.

There is a simple Liberty `server.xml` configuration required to run Stream-JMX servlet:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<server description="new server">

    <!-- Enable features -->
    <featureManager>
        <feature>webProfile-7.0</feature>
        <feature>restConnector-1.0</feature>		
        <feature>localConnector-1.0</feature>
        <feature>monitor-1.0</feature>
        <feature>javaee-7.0</feature>		
    </featureManager>

    <!-- To access this server from a remote client add a host attribute to the following element, e.g. host="*" -->
    <httpEndpoint id="defaultHttpEndpoint"
                  httpPort="9080"
                  httpsPort="9443"
                  host="*"/>

    <!-- Automatically expand WAR files and EAR files -->
    <applicationManager autoExpand="true"/>
	
	<webContainer deferServletLoad="false"/>

    <auth-method>BASIC</auth-method>

    <basicRegistry id="basic" realm="default">		
        <user name="Admin" password="admin" />
        <user name="JMXManager" password="jmxAdmin" />
    </basicRegistry>

    <administrator-role>
        <user>Admin</user>
    </administrator-role>
	
    <application contextRoot="tnt-jmx" location="tnt4j-stream-jmx-liberty-war-0.6.war" type="war" id="tnt-jmx" name="tnt-jmx">
        <application-bnd>
            <security-role name="StreamJmxManager">
                <user name="JMXManager" />
				<run-as userid="JMXManager" />
            </security-role>
        </application-bnd>
    </application>
</server>
```

By default Stream-JMX connects to local Liberty runner JVM using `java.lang.management.ManagementFactory.getPlatformMBeanServer()`.

Navigate to `http://localhost:9080/YOUR_CHOOSEN_CONTEXT_PATH/`. TNT4J-Stream-JMX configuration/monitoring page should be displayed.
See [Generic servlet page features](#generic-servlet-page-features) on what is available there.

## Embed Stream-JMX code into your application

### Coding

```java
    // obtain SamplerFactory instance
    SamplerFactory factory = DefaultSamplerFactory.getInstance();
    // create an instance of the sampler that will sample mbeans
    Sampler sampler = factory.newInstance();
    // schedule collection (ping) for given MBean filter and 30000 ms sampling period
    sampler.setSchedule(Sampler.JMX_FILTER_ALL, 30000).run();
```
**NOTE:** `setSchedule(..).run()` sequence must be called to run the schedule. `setSchedule(..)` just sets the
scheduling parameters, `run()` executes the schedule.

To schedule metric collection for a specific MBean server:
```java
    // obtain SamplerFactory instance
    SamplerFactory factory = DefaultSamplerFactory.getInstance();
    // create an instance of the sampler that will sample mbeans
    Sampler sampler = factory.newInstance(ManagementFactory.getPlatformMBeanServer());
    // schedule collection (ping) for given MBean filter and 30000 ms sampling period
    sampler.setSchedule(Sampler.JMX_FILTER_ALL, 30000).run();
```
Stream-JMX supports inclusion and exclusion filters.
To schedule metric collection for a specific MBean server and exclude certain MBeans:
(Exclusion filters are applied after inclusion filters)
```java
    // obtain SamplerFactory instance
    SamplerFactory factory = DefaultSamplerFactory.getInstance();
    // create an instance of the sampler that will sample mbeans
    Sampler sampler = factory.newInstance(ManagementFactory.getPlatformMBeanServer());
    String excludeMBeanFilter = "mydomain:*";
    // schedule collection (ping) for given MBean filter and 30000 ms sampling period
    sampler.setSchedule(Sampler.JMX_FILTER_ALL, excludeMBeanFilter, 30000).run();
```
Below is an example of how to sample all registered mbean servers:
```java
    // obtain SamplerFactory instance
    SamplerFactory factory = DefaultSamplerFactory.getInstance();
    // find other registered mbean servers
    ArrayList<MBeanServer> mlist = MBeanServerFactory.findMBeanServer(null);
    for (MBeanServer server: mlist) {
        Sampler jmxp = factory.newInstance(server);
        jmxp.setSchedule(Sampler.JMX_FILTER_ALL, 30000).run();
    }
```
Alternatively, Stream-JMX provides a helper class `SamplingAgent` that lets you schedule sampling for all registered `MBeanServer` 
instances.
```java
    SamplingAgent.sample(Sampler.JMX_FILTER_ALL, Sampler.JMX_FILTER_NONE, 60000, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS);
```
**NOTE:** Sampled MBean attributes and associated values are stored in a collection of `Snapshot` objects stored within `Activity` 
instance. Current `Activity` instance can be obtained via `AttributeSample` passed when calling listeners such as `AttributeCondition`, 
`SampleListener`. Snapshots can be accessed using `Activity.getSnapshots()` method call.

**NOTE:** Sampled output is written to underlying tnt4j event sink configured in `tnt4j.properties` file. Sink destinations could be a 
file, socket, log4j, user defined event sink implementations.

For more information on TNT4J and `tnt4j.properties` [see TNT4J Wiki](https://github.com/Nastel/TNT4J/wiki/Getting-Started).

### Command line to run
Example below runs `SamplingAgent` helper class as a standalone java application with a given MBean filter `"*:*"`, sampling period in 
milliseconds (`10000`), and time to run in milliseconds (`60000`):
```cmd
java -Dcom.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.agent.trace=true -classpath "*;lib/*" com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.SamplingAgent "*:*" "" 10000 60000
```

## Stream-JMX configuration

### System properties used
* `tnt4j.config` - defines TNT4J properties file path. Example: `-Dtnt4j.config=".\config\tnt4j.properties"`
* `com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.agent.trace` - defines whether to dump trace data to application console output.
Example: `-Dcom.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.agent.trace=true`

## Stream-JMX event data formatters

* FactNameValueFormatter - This class provides key/value formatting for tnt4j activities, events and snapshots. The output format follows 
the following format:
```
"OBJ:name-value-prefix1\name1=value1,name-value-prefix1\name2=value2,....,name-value-prefixN\nameN=valueN"
```
Sample output:
```
OBJ:Streams\0,
0\HQDC\samtis\com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.impl.PlatformJmxSampler\Activities,
Self\location=0,
0,
Self\level=INFO,
Self\id.count=0,
Self\pid=7660,
Self\tid=63,
Self\snap.count=34,
Self\elapsed.usec=9989365,
JMImplementation:type\MBeanServerDelegate\MBeanServerId=samtis_1486645461070,
JMImplementation:type\MBeanServerDelegate\SpecificationName=Java Management Extensions,
JMImplementation:type\MBeanServerDelegate\SpecificationVersion=1.4,
JMImplementation:type\MBeanServerDelegate\SpecificationVendor=Oracle Corporation,
JMImplementation:type\MBeanServerDelegate\ImplementationName=JMX,
JMImplementation:type\MBeanServerDelegate\ImplementationVersion=1.8.0_121-b13,
JMImplementation:type\MBeanServerDelegate\ImplementationVendor=Oracle Corporation,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\Uptime=1 minute,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\MemoryPercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\Persistent=true,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\DataDirectory=D:\tmp\apache-activemq-5.14.3\data,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\VMURL=vm://localhost,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TempLimit=42844577792,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\MemoryLimit=668309914,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\StoreLimit=42846849471,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\MaxMessageSize=1024,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\AverageMessageSize=1024,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TotalDequeueCount=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TotalConsumerCount=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\StatisticsEnabled=true,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\JobSchedulerStoreLimit=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\MinMessageSize=1024,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\JobSchedulerStorePercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\StorePercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TempPercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\CurrentConnectionsCount=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TotalMessageCount=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TotalConnectionsCount=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TotalEnqueueCount=1,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TotalProducerCount=0,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\TransportConnectors=[openwire=tcp://samtis:61616?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 amqp=amqp://samtis:5672?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 mqtt=mqtt://samtis:1883?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 stomp=stomp://samtis:61613?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 ws=ws://samtis:61614?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600],
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\BrokerVersion=5.14.3,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\UptimeMillis=62787,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\BrokerName=localhost,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\Slave=false,
org.apache.activemq:brokerName\localhost!type\Broker\BrokerId=ID:samtis-52769-1486645462150-0:1,
SampleContext\noop.count=0,
SampleContext\sample.count=6,
SampleContext\total.error.count=6,
SampleContext\total.exclude.count=204,
SampleContext\mbean.count=37,
SampleContext\condition.count=0,
SampleContext\listener.count=1,
SampleContext\total.action.count=0,
SampleContext\total.metric.count=3582,
SampleContext\last.metric.count=595,
SampleContext\sample.time.usec=10054,
SampleContext\listener.exclude.set.count=6,
SampleContext\listener.trace.mode=false,
...
```
**NOTE:** Entries are not sorted, sequence is same as returned by activity contained snapshots map entries and snapshot properties 
iterators.

* FactPathValueFormatter - This class provides key/value formatting for tnt4j activities, events and snapshots. The output format follows 
the following format:
```
"OBJ:object-path1\name1=value1,object-path1\name2=value2,....,object-pathN\nameN=valueN""
```
Sample output:
```
OBJ:Streams\0,
0\HQDC\samtis\com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.impl.PlatformJmxSampler\Activities,
Self\location=0,
0,
Self\level=INFO,
Self\id.count=0,
Self\pid=3136,
Self\tid=24,
Self\snap.count=34,
Self\elapsed.usec=9885208,
JMImplementation\MBeanServerDelegate\ImplementationName=JMX,
JMImplementation\MBeanServerDelegate\ImplementationVendor=Oracle Corporation,
JMImplementation\MBeanServerDelegate\ImplementationVersion=1.8.0_121-b13,
JMImplementation\MBeanServerDelegate\MBeanServerId=samtis_1486998422874,
JMImplementation\MBeanServerDelegate\SpecificationName=Java Management Extensions,
JMImplementation\MBeanServerDelegate\SpecificationVendor=Oracle Corporation,
JMImplementation\MBeanServerDelegate\SpecificationVersion=1.4,
SampleContext\condition.count=0,
SampleContext\last.metric.count=633,
SampleContext\listener.count=1,
SampleContext\listener.exclude.set.count=6,
SampleContext\listener.trace.mode=true,
SampleContext\mbean.count=37,
SampleContext\noop.count=0,
SampleContext\sample.count=2,
SampleContext\sample.time.usec=72856,
SampleContext\total.action.count=0,
SampleContext\total.error.count=6,
SampleContext\total.exclude.count=66,
SampleContext\total.metric.count=1272,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\AverageMessageSize=1024,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\BrokerId=ID:samtis-63754-1486998424125-0:1,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\BrokerName=localhost,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\BrokerVersion=5.14.3,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\CurrentConnectionsCount=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\DataDirectory=D:\tmp\apache-activemq-5.14.3\data,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\DurableTopicSubscribers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\DynamicDestinationProducers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\InactiveDurableTopicSubscribers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\JMSJobScheduler=null,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\JobSchedulerStoreLimit=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\JobSchedulerStorePercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\MaxMessageSize=1024,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\MemoryLimit=668309914,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\MemoryPercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\MinMessageSize=1024,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\Persistent=true,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\QueueProducers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\QueueSubscribers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\Queues=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\Slave=false,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\StatisticsEnabled=true,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\StoreLimit=42845775469,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\StorePercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TempLimit=42842071040,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TempPercentUsage=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TemporaryQueueProducers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TemporaryQueueSubscribers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TemporaryQueues=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TemporaryTopicProducers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TemporaryTopicSubscribers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TemporaryTopics=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TopicProducers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TopicSubscribers=[],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\Topics=[org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,
brokerName=localhost,
destinationType=Topic,
destinationName=ActiveMQ.Advisory.MasterBroker],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TotalConnectionsCount=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TotalConsumerCount=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TotalDequeueCount=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TotalEnqueueCount=1,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TotalMessageCount=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TotalProducerCount=0,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\TransportConnectors=[amqp=amqp://samtis:5672?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 mqtt=mqtt://samtis:1883?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 ws=ws://samtis:61614?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 openwire=tcp://samtis:61616?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600,
 stomp=stomp://samtis:61613?maximumConnections=1000&wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600],
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\Uptime=13 minutes,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\UptimeMillis=822599,
org.apache.activemq\Broker\localhost\VMURL=vm://localhost,
...
```
**NOTE:** Entries are sorted by key alphanumeric ordering and key representation is more common to be used for, e.g., tree model construction 
to represent JMX structure more like `JConsole` does.

## Where do the streams go?
Stream-JMX streams all collected metrics based on a scheduled interval via TNT4J event streaming framework.
All streams are written into TNT4J event sinks defined in `tnt4j.properties` file which is defined by `-Dtnt4j.config=tnt4j.properties` 
property.

### To [jKoolCloud](https://www.jkoolcloud.com): (Requires [JESL libraries](https://nastel.github.io/JESL))
Below is an example of TNT4J stream configuration writing collected JMX samples to JKoolCloud server, formatted as JSON:
```properties
;Stanza used for Stream-JMX sources
{
    source: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx
    source.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.source.SourceFactoryImpl
    source.factory.GEOADDR: New York
    source.factory.DATACENTER: YourDC
    source.factory.RootFQN: SERVER=?#DATACENTER=?#GEOADDR=?
    source.factory.RootSSN: tnt4j-stream-jmx

    tracker.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.tracker.DefaultTrackerFactory
    dump.sink.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.dump.DefaultDumpSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.BufferedEventSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory.PooledLoggerFactory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.PooledLoggerFactoryImpl

    ; Event Sink configuration for streaming to jKoolCloud
    ; NOTE: Requires JESL libraries (http://nastel.github.io/JESL/)
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory: com.jkoolcloud.jesl.tnt4j.sink.JKCloudEventSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.Filename: logs/stream-jmx_activities.json
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.Url: https://data.jkoolcloud.com
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.Token: YOUR-ACCESS-TOKEN
    event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.format.JSONFormatter

    ; Configure default sink filter based on level and time (elapsed/wait)
    event.sink.factory.Filter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.filters.EventLevelTimeFilter
    event.sink.factory.Filter.Level: TRACE

    tracking.selector: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.selector.DefaultTrackingSelector
    tracking.selector.Repository: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.repository.FileTokenRepository
}
```

### To socket
Below is an example of TNT4J stream configuration writing collected JMX samples to a socket event sink
`com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.SocketEventSinkFactory`, formatted by `com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.FactNameValueFormatter`:
```properties
;Stanza used for Stream-JMX sources
{
	source: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx
    source.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.source.SourceFactoryImpl
    source.factory.GEOADDR: New York
    source.factory.DATACENTER: YourDC
    source.factory.RootFQN: SERVER=?#DATACENTER=?#GEOADDR=?
    source.factory.RootSSN: tnt4j-stream-jmx

    tracker.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.tracker.DefaultTrackerFactory
    dump.sink.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.dump.DefaultDumpSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.BufferedEventSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory.PooledLoggerFactory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.PooledLoggerFactoryImpl

    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.SocketEventSinkFactory
    ; If socket sent data should no be logged anywhere else
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.eventSinkFactory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.NullEventSinkFactory
    ; If socket sent data should be logged to file
    #event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.eventSinkFactory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.FileEventSinkFactory
    #event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.eventSinkFactory.FileName: logs/tnt4j-stream-jmx_samples_socket.log
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.Host: localhost
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.Port: 6060
    ; NOTE: DO NOT define "event.formatter" property value if have no need for custom formatter.
    ;       SamplerFactory will take care to set appropriate one for a context.
    #event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.format.JSONFormatter
    ; If JMX attributes should be formatted as JMX object names
    event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.FactNameValueFormatter
    ; If JMX attributes should be formatted as JMX object paths
    #event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.FactPathValueFormatter
    ; If JMX attributes should be formatted as JMX object paths for IBM WAS and Liberty
    #event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.SLIFactPathValueFormatter
    ; If formatter should serialize only simple types JMX attribute values. Rest are replaced by dummy value.
    event.formatter.SerializeSimplesOnly: false
    ; Mapping of attribute key string symbol replacements
    #event.formatter.KeyReplacements: " "->"_" "\""->"'"
    ; Mapping of attribute value string symbol replacements
    #event.formatter.ValueReplacements: "\r"->"\\r" "\n"->"\\n" ";"->"|" ","->"|" "["->"{(" "]"->")}" "\""->"'"
    ; Definitions ObjectName attributes sets used when building path: ';' is level set delimiter and ',' is set attribute names delimiter
    #event.formatter.PathLevelAttributes:  domain; type; name, brokerName; service, connector, destinationType; instanceName, connectorName, destinationName
    ; Defines JMX sample attribute key suffix to be added when duplicate keys for "branch" and "leaf" nodes are found.
    ; NOTE: AP does not allow to have same name for "branch" and "leaf" nodes at same tree level
    #event.formatter.DuplicateKeySuffix: ___ 

    ; Configure default sink filter based on level and time (elapsed/wait)
    event.sink.factory.Filter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.filters.EventLevelTimeFilter
    event.sink.factory.Filter.Level: TRACE

    tracking.selector: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.selector.DefaultTrackingSelector
    tracking.selector.Repository: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.repository.FileTokenRepository
}
```

### To file
Below is an example of TNT4J stream configuration writing collected JMX samples to a log file `MyStream.log`, formatted by 
`com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.FactNameValueFormatter`:
```properties
;Stanza used for Stream-JMX sources
{
    source: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx
    source.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.source.SourceFactoryImpl
    source.factory.GEOADDR: New York
    source.factory.DATACENTER: YourDC
    source.factory.RootFQN: SERVER=?#DATACENTER=?#GEOADDR=?
    source.factory.RootSSN: tnt4j-stream-jmx

    tracker.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.tracker.DefaultTrackerFactory
    dump.sink.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.dump.DefaultDumpSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.BufferedEventSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory.PooledLoggerFactory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.PooledLoggerFactoryImpl

    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.FileEventSinkFactory
    event.sink.factory.EventSinkFactory.FileName: MyStream.log
    ; NOTE: DO NOT define "event.formatter" property value if have no need for custom formatter.
    ;       SamplerFactory will take care to set appropriate one for a context.
    #event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.format.JSONFormatter
    ; If JMX attributes should be formatted as JMX object names
    event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.FactNameValueFormatter
    ; If JMX attributes should be formatted as JMX object paths
    #event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.FactPathValueFormatter
    ; If JMX attributes should be formatted as JMX object paths for IBM WAS and Liberty
    #event.formatter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.format.SLIFactPathValueFormatter
    ; If formatter should serialize only simple types JMX attribute values. Rest are replaced by dummy value.
    event.formatter.SerializeSimplesOnly: false
    ; Mapping of attribute key string symbol replacements
    #event.formatter.KeyReplacements: " "->"_" "\""->"'"
    ; Mapping of attribute value string symbol replacements
    #event.formatter.ValueReplacements: "\r"->"\\r" "\n"->"\\n" ";"->"|" ","->"|" "["->"{(" "]"->")}" "\""->"'"
    ; Definitions ObjectName attributes sets used when building path: ';' is level set delimiter and ',' is set attribute names delimiter
    #event.formatter.PathLevelAttributes:  domain; type; name, brokerName; service, connector, destinationType; instanceName, connectorName, destinationName
    ; Defines JMX sample attribute key suffix to be added when duplicate keys for "branch" and "leaf" nodes are found.
    ; NOTE: AP does not allow to have same name for "branch" and "leaf" nodes at same tree level
    #event.formatter.DuplicateKeySuffix: ___

    ; Configure default sink filter based on level and time (elapsed/wait)
    event.sink.factory.Filter: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.filters.EventLevelTimeFilter
    event.sink.factory.Filter.Level: TRACE

    tracking.selector: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.selector.DefaultTrackingSelector
    tracking.selector.Repository: com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.repository.FileTokenRepository
}
```

### And even more
You can also write your own custom event sinks (HTTPS, HTTP, etc) and your own stream formatters without having to change Stream-JMX code or 
your application. TNT4J comes with a set of built-in event sink implementations such as:

* `com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.logger.Log4JEventSinkFactory` -- log4j
* `com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.BufferedEventSinkFactory` -- buffered sink
* `com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.FileEventSinkFactory` - standard log file
* `com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.SocketEventSinkFactory` -- socket (tcp/ip)
* `com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.sink.impl.NullEventSinkFactory` -- null (empty)

## Auto-generating application state dump
Stream-JMX is utilizing TNT4J state dump capability to generate application state dumps

(1) Dump on VM shut-down:
```cmd
java -Dtnt4j.dump.on.vm.shutdown=true -Dtnt4j.dump.provider.default=true -Dtnt4j.dump.folder=./ ...
```
(2) Dump on uncaught thread exceptions:
```cmd
java -Dtnt4j.dump.on.exceptionn=true -Dtnt4j.dump.provider.default=true -Dtnt4j.dump.folder=./ ...
```
`-Dtnt4j.dump.folder=./` specifies the destination folder where dump (.dump) files will be created (default is current working directory).

By default Stream-JMX will generate dumps with the following info:

* Java Properties Dump -- `PropertiesDumpProvider`
* Java Runtime Dump -- `MXBeanDumpProvider`
* Thread Stack Dump -- `ThreadDumpProvider`
* Thread Deadlock Dump -- `ThreadDumpProvider`
* Logging Statistics Dump -- `LoggerDumpProvider`

You may create your own [dump providers and handlers](https://github.com/Nastel/TNT4J/wiki/Getting-Started#application-state-dumps)
## Overriding default `SamplerFactory`
`SamplerFactory` instances are used to generate `Sampler` implementation for a specific runtime environment. Stream-JMX supplies sampler 
and sampler factories for standard JVMs, J2EE, JBoss, IBM WebSphere Application Server, IBM WebSphere Liberty server. You may want to 
override default `SamplerFactory` with your own or an alternative by specifying:
```cmd
java -Dcom.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.sampler.factory=com.jkoolcloud.tnt4j.stream.jmx.impl.PlatformSamplerFactory ...
```
`SamplerFactory` is used to generate instances of the underlying sampler implementations (objects that provide sampling of underlying 
mbeans).
```java
    // return default or user defined SamplerFactory implementation
    SamplerFactory factory = DefaultSamplerFactory.getInstance();
    ...
```
## Managing Sample Behavior
Stream-JMX provides a way to intercept sampling events such as pre, during an post for each sample run and control sample behavior. See 
`SampleListener` interface for more details. Applications may register more than one listener per `Sampler`. Each listener is called in 
registration order.

In addition to intercepting sample events, applications may want to control how one ore more attributes are sampled and whether each sample 
is reported/logged. See example below:
```java
    // return default or user defined SamplerFactory implementation
    SamplerFactory factory = DefaultSamplerFactory.getInstance();
    // create an instance of the sampler that will sample mbeans
    Sampler sampler = factory.newInstance();
    sampler.setSchedule(Sampler.JMX_FILTER_ALL, 30000).addListener(new MySampleListener())).run();
```
Below is a sample of what `MySampleListener` may look like:
```java
class MySampleListener implements SampleListener {
	@Override
    public void getStats(SampleContext context, Map<String, Object> stats) {
		// add your own stats to the map
	}
	
	@Override
    public void register(SampleContext context, ObjectName oname) {
		System.out.println("Register mbean: " + oname + ", mbean.server=" + context.getMBeanServer());
	}

	@Override
    public void unregister(SampleContext context, ObjectName oname) {
		System.out.println("Unregister mbean: " + oname + ", mbean.server=" + context.getMBeanServer());
    }

	@Override
	public void pre(SampleContext context, Activity activity) {
		// called once per sample, beginning of each sample
		// set activity to NOOP to disable further sampling
		// no other attribute will be sampled during current sample
		if (some-condition) {
			activity.setType(OpType.NOOP);
		}
	}

	@Override
	public void pre(SampleContext context, AttributeSample sample) {
		// called once before attribute is sampled
		// set exclude to true to skip sampling this attribute
		sample.excludeNext(sample.getAttributeInfo().isReadable());
	}

	@Override
	public void post(SampleContext context, AttributeSample sample) {
		// called once after attribute is sampled
		Object value = sample.get();
	}

	@Override
	public void post(SampleContext context, Activity activity) {
		// called once per sample, end of each sample
		// set activity to NOOP to disable sampling reporting
		if (some-condition) {
			activity.setType(OpType.NOOP);
		}
	}
	
	@Override
	public void error(SampleContext context, Throwable ex) {
		// called once for every exception that occurs not associated with a sample
		ex.printStackTrace();
	}
	
	@Override
	public void error(SampleContext context, AttributeSample sample) {
		// called once for every exception that occurs during each sample
		Throwable ex = sample.getError();
		ex.printStackTrace();
	}	
}
```
## Conditions and Actions
Stream-JMX allows you to associate conditions with user defined actions based on values of MBean attributes on each sampling
interval. For example, what if you wanted to setup an action when a specific MBean attribute exceeds a certain threshold?

Stream-JMX `AttributeCondition` and `AttributeAction` interfaces allow you to call your action at runtime every time a condition is 
evaluated to `true`. See example below:
```java
    // return default or user defined SamplerFactory implementation
    SamplerFactory factory = DefaultSamplerFactory.getInstance();
    // create an instance of the sampler that will sample mbeans
    Sampler sampler = factory.newInstance();
    // create a condition when ThreadCount > 100
    AttributeCondition myCondition = new SimpleCondition("java.lang:type=Threading", "ThreadCount", 100, ">");
    // schedule collection (ping) for given MBean filter and 30000 ms sampling period
    sampler.setSchedule(Sampler.JMX_FILTER_ALL, 30000).register(myCondition, new MyAttributeAction()).run();
```
Below is a sample of what `MyAttributeAction` may look like:
```java
public class MyAttributeAction implements AttributeAction {
	@Override
	public Object action(SampleContext context, AttributeCondition cond, AttributeSample sample) {
		Activity activity = sample.getActivity();
		// obtain a collection of all sampled metrics
		Collection<Snapshot> metrics = activity.getSnapshots();
		System.out.println("MyAction called with value=" + sample.get()
			+ ", age.usec=" + sample.ageUsec()
			+ ", count=" + metrics.size());
		return null;
	}
}
```

How to Build TNT4J-Stream-JMX
=========================================
## Modules

* (M) marked modules are mandatory
* (O) marked modules are optional
* (U) marked modules are utility modules (e.g., performs compiled assemblies packaging)

Modules list:
   * `Core` (M) - implements core JMX sampling, processing and dissemination features.
   * `J2EE` (O) - J2EE API addition to handle J2EE API defined attributes and implements abstract Stream-JMX servlet API.
   * `WAS` (O, requires `J2EE`) - IBM WebSphere Application Server (WAS) root module.
        * `Api` (O) - builds specific API used to sample WAS JMX (jar).
        * `War` (O) - builds WAS compliant web application package (war).
        * `Ear` (O) - builds WAS compliant enterprise application package (ear).
   * `Liberty` (O, requires `J2EE`)  - IBM WebSphere Liberty root module.
        * `Api` (O) - builds specific API used to sample Liberty JMX (jar).
        * `War` (O) - builds Liberty compliant web application package (war).
   * `Distribution` (OU) - build distribution packages, see `../build/tnt4j-stream-jmx` directory.

All optional modules (extensions) depends to `core` module and can't be build and run without it.

**NOTE:** `Distribution` module performs `maven post build` release assemblies delivery to `../build/tnt4j-stream-jmx` directory.

## Requirements
* JDK 1.6+
* [Apache Maven 3](https://maven.apache.org/)
* [TNT4J](https://nastel.github.io/TNT4J)
* [JESL](https://nastel.github.io/JESL)

All other required dependencies are defined in project modules `pom.xml` files. If maven is running online mode it should download these 
defined dependencies automatically.

### Manually installed dependencies
Some of required and optional dependencies may be not available in public [Maven Repository](http://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/). In this 
case we would recommend to download those dependencies manually into module's `lib` directory and install into local maven repository by 
running maven script `lib/pom.xml` with `install` goal. For example see [`tnt4j-stream-jmx/tnt4j-stream-jmx-was/lib/pom.xml`](tnt4j-stream-jmx-was/lib/pom.xml) 
how to do this.

#### `Core` module

This module does not require manually downloaded dependencies, but depends on **JDK** contained instrumentation library `tools.jar`.
Dependency is defined in:
* Maven POM script by
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sun</groupId>
  <artifactId>tools</artifactId>
  <version>${project.java.version}</version>
  <scope>system</scope>
  <systemPath>${java.home}/../lib/tools.jar</systemPath>
</dependency>
```
* System executables `bin/stream-jmx*.bat` or `bin/stream-jmx*.sh` by environment variable `TOOLS_PATH`
```cmd
set TOOLS_PATH="%JAVA_HOME%\lib\tools.jar"
```
```bash
TOOLS_PATH="$JAVA_HOME/lib/tools.jar"
```
**NOTE:** you may need to change paths if these do not match your environment.

#### `WAS` module

**NOTE:** Because this module requires manually downloaded libraries, it is commented out in main project pom file `tnt4j-stream-jmx/pom.xml` 
by default. If You want to use it uncomment this line of `pom.xml` file. But `WAS` module will be ready to build only when manually 
downloaded libraries will be installed to local maven repository.

What to download manually or copy from your existing IBM MQ installation:
* IBM WAS (e.g., version 8.5) client libs
* j2ee API library

Download the above libraries and place into the `tnt4j-stream-jmx/tnt4j-stream-jmx-was/tnt4j-stream-jmx-was-api/lib` directory like this:
```
    lib
     + was
         |- com.ibm.ws.admin.client_8.5.0.jar
         |- com.ibm.ws.ejb.thinclient_8.5.0.jar
         |- com.ibm.ws.orb_8.5.0.jar
```
(O) marked libraries are optional

Additionally alter system executables `bin/stream-jmx*.bat` or `bin/stream-jmx*.sh` by extending environment variable `LIBPATH` value:
```cmd
set WAS_HOME="c:\IBM\WebSphere\AppServer"
set WAS_PATH="%WAS_HOME%\runtimes\*"
set LIBPATH="%RUNDIR%..\*;%RUNDIR%..\lib\*;%TOOLS_PATH%;%WAS_PATH%"
```
```bash
WAS_HOME=/opt/IBM/WebSphere/AppServer
WAS_PATH="$WAS_HOME/runtimes/*"
LIBPATH="$SCRIPTPATH/../*:$SCRIPTPATH/../lib/*:$TOOLS_PATH:$WAS_PATH"
```

If you don't have actual `WAS` installation, `WAS_PATH` may also refer to jars located in `tnt4j-stream-jmx/tnt4j-stream-jmx-was/lib/*` 
directory.

## Building
   * to build project and make release assemblies run maven goals `clean package`
   * to build project, make release assemblies and install to local repo run maven goals `clean install`

By default maven will build all modules defined in `tnt4j-stream-jmx/pom.xml` file.

If You do not want to build some of optional modules, comment those out like `WAS` module is. Or You can define maven to build your 
preferred set of modules using `-pl, --projects` argument (comma separated modules list) together with `-am, --also-make` argument, e.g.:

```cmd
mvn -pl tnt4j-stream-jmx-core,tnt4j-stream-jmx--distribution -am clean install
```
or
```cmd
mvn --projects tnt4j-stream-jmx-core,tnt4j-stream-jmx--distribution --also-make clean install
```

**NOTE:** modules list should be without spaces after comma!

Issuing these commands, maven will build only `tnt4j-stream-jmx-core` and `tnt4j-stream-jmx--distribution` modules.

Release assemblies are built to `../build/tnt4j-stream-jmx` directory.

**NOTE:** sometimes maven fails to correctly handle dependencies. If dependency configuration looks fine, but maven still complains about 
missing dependencies try to delete local maven repository by hand: e.g., on MS Windows delete contents of `c:\Users\[username]\.m2\repository` 
directory.

## Running samples

See [Using Stream-JMX](#using-stream-jmx) section.

# Related Projects
* [TrackingFilter](http://nastel.github.io/TrackingFilter)
* [JESL](https://nastel.github.io/JESL)

# Available Integrations
* [TNT4J](https://nastel.github.io/TNT4J)
* [jKoolCloud.com](https://www.jkoolcloud.com)
* [AutoPilot M6](http://www.nastel.com/products/autopilot-m6.html)
